# VkQueryPipelineStatisticFlagBits(3) Manual Page

## Name

VkQueryPipelineStatisticFlagBits - Bitmask specifying queried pipeline statistics



## [](#_c_specification)C Specification

Bits which **can** be set in [VkQueryPoolCreateInfo](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/man/html/VkQueryPoolCreateInfo.html)::`pipelineStatistics` for query pools and in [VkCommandBufferInheritanceInfo](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/man/html/VkCommandBufferInheritanceInfo.html)::`pipelineStatistics` for secondary command buffers, individually enabling pipeline statistics counters, are:

```c++
// Provided by VK_VERSION_1_0
typedef enum VkQueryPipelineStatisticFlagBits {
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_INPUT_ASSEMBLY_VERTICES_BIT = 0x00000001,
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_INPUT_ASSEMBLY_PRIMITIVES_BIT = 0x00000002,
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_VERTEX_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT = 0x00000004,
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_GEOMETRY_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT = 0x00000008,
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_GEOMETRY_SHADER_PRIMITIVES_BIT = 0x00000010,
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_CLIPPING_INVOCATIONS_BIT = 0x00000020,
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_CLIPPING_PRIMITIVES_BIT = 0x00000040,
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_FRAGMENT_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT = 0x00000080,
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_TESSELLATION_CONTROL_SHADER_PATCHES_BIT = 0x00000100,
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_TESSELLATION_EVALUATION_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT = 0x00000200,
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_COMPUTE_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT = 0x00000400,
  // Provided by VK_EXT_mesh_shader
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_TASK_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT_EXT = 0x00000800,
  // Provided by VK_EXT_mesh_shader
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_MESH_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT_EXT = 0x00001000,
  // Provided by VK_HUAWEI_cluster_culling_shader
    VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_CLUSTER_CULLING_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT_HUAWEI = 0x00002000,
} VkQueryPipelineStatisticFlagBits;
```

## [](#_description)Description

- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_INPUT_ASSEMBLY_VERTICES_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of vertices processed by the [input assembly](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#drawing) stage. Vertices corresponding to incomplete primitives **may** contribute to the count.
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_INPUT_ASSEMBLY_PRIMITIVES_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of primitives processed by the [input assembly](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#drawing) stage. If primitive restart is enabled, restarting the primitive topology has no effect on the count. Incomplete primitives **may** be counted.
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_VERTEX_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of vertex shader invocations. This counter’s value is incremented each time a vertex shader is [invoked](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#shaders-vertex-execution).
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_GEOMETRY_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of geometry shader invocations. This counter’s value is incremented each time a geometry shader is [invoked](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#shaders-geometry-execution). In the case of [instanced geometry shaders](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#geometry-invocations), the geometry shader invocations count is incremented for each separate instanced invocation.
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_GEOMETRY_SHADER_PRIMITIVES_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of primitives generated by geometry shader invocations. The counter’s value is incremented each time the geometry shader emits a primitive. Restarting primitive topology using the SPIR-V instructions `OpEndPrimitive` or `OpEndStreamPrimitive` has no effect on the geometry shader output primitives count.
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_CLIPPING_INVOCATIONS_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of primitives processed by the [Primitive Clipping](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#vertexpostproc-clipping) stage of the pipeline. The counter’s value is incremented each time a primitive reaches the primitive clipping stage.
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_CLIPPING_PRIMITIVES_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of primitives output by the [Primitive Clipping](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#vertexpostproc-clipping) stage of the pipeline. The counter’s value is incremented each time a primitive passes the primitive clipping stage. The actual number of primitives output by the primitive clipping stage for a particular input primitive is implementation-dependent but **must** satisfy the following conditions:
  
  - If at least one vertex of the input primitive lies inside the clipping volume, the counter is incremented by one or more.
  - Otherwise, the counter is incremented by zero or more.
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_FRAGMENT_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of fragment shader invocations. The counter’s value is incremented each time the fragment shader is [invoked](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#fragops-shader).
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_TESSELLATION_CONTROL_SHADER_PATCHES_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of patches processed by the tessellation control shader. The counter’s value is incremented once for each patch for which a tessellation control shader is [invoked](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#shaders-tessellation-control-execution).
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_TESSELLATION_EVALUATION_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of invocations of the tessellation evaluation shader. The counter’s value is incremented each time the tessellation evaluation shader is [invoked](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#shaders-tessellation-evaluation-execution).
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_COMPUTE_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of compute shader invocations. The counter’s value is incremented every time the compute shader is invoked. Implementations **may** skip the execution of certain compute shader invocations or execute additional compute shader invocations for implementation-dependent reasons as long as the results of rendering otherwise remain unchanged.
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_TASK_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT_EXT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of task shader invocations. The counter’s value is incremented every time the task shader is invoked.
- `VK_QUERY_PIPELINE_STATISTIC_MESH_SHADER_INVOCATIONS_BIT_EXT` specifies that queries managed by the pool will count the number of mesh shader invocations. The counter’s value is incremented every time the mesh shader is invoked.

These values are intended to measure relative statistics on one implementation. Various device architectures will count these values differently. Any or all counters **may** be affected by the issues described in [Query Operation](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#queries-operation-undefined).

This counting difference is especially true if the pipeline contains mesh or task shaders, which may affect several of the counters in unexpected ways.

Note

For example, tile-based rendering devices **may** need to replay the scene multiple times, affecting some of the counts.

If a pipeline has `rasterizerDiscardEnable` enabled, implementations **may** discard primitives after the final [pre-rasterization shader stage](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#pipelines-graphics-subsets-pre-rasterization). As a result, if `rasterizerDiscardEnable` is enabled, the clipping input and output primitives counters **may** not be incremented.

When a pipeline statistics query finishes, the result for that query is marked as available. The application **can** copy the result to a buffer (via `vkCmdCopyQueryPoolResults`), or request it be put into host memory (via `vkGetQueryPoolResults`).

## [](#_see_also)See Also

[VK\_VERSION\_1\_0](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/man/html/VK_VERSION_1_0.html), [VkQueryPipelineStatisticFlags](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/man/html/VkQueryPipelineStatisticFlags.html)

## [](#_document_notes)Document Notes

For more information, see the [Vulkan Specification](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/latest/html/vkspec.html#VkQueryPipelineStatisticFlagBits).

This page is extracted from the Vulkan Specification. Fixes and changes should be made to the Specification, not directly.

## [](#_copyright)Copyright

Copyright 2014-2025 The Khronos Group Inc.

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0