# VK_KHR_spirv_1_4(3) Manual Page

## Name

VK_KHR_spirv_1_4 - device extension



## <a href="#_registered_extension_number" class="anchor"></a>Registered Extension Number

237

## <a href="#_revision" class="anchor"></a>Revision

1

## <a href="#_ratification_status" class="anchor"></a>Ratification Status

Ratified

## <a href="#_extension_and_version_dependencies" class="anchor"></a>Extension and Version Dependencies

[Version 1.1](#versions-1.1)  
and  
[VK_KHR_shader_float_controls](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VK_KHR_shader_float_controls.html)  

## <a href="#_deprecation_state" class="anchor"></a>Deprecation State

- *Promoted* to <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#versions-1.2-promotions"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener">Vulkan 1.2</a>

## <a href="#_contact" class="anchor"></a>Contact

- Jesse Hall <a
  href="https://github.com/KhronosGroup/Vulkan-Docs/issues/new?body=%5BVK_KHR_spirv_1_4%5D%20@critsec%0A*Here%20describe%20the%20issue%20or%20question%20you%20have%20about%20the%20VK_KHR_spirv_1_4%20extension*"
  target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener"><em></em>critsec</a>

## <a href="#_other_extension_metadata" class="anchor"></a>Other Extension Metadata

**Last Modified Date**  
2019-04-01

**IP Status**  
No known IP claims.

**Interactions and External Dependencies**  
- Requires SPIR-V 1.4.

**Contributors**  
- Alexander Galazin, Arm

- David Neto, Google

- Jesse Hall, Google

- John Kessenich, Google

- Neil Henning, AMD

- Tom Olson, Arm

## <a href="#_description" class="anchor"></a>Description

This extension allows the use of SPIR-V 1.4 shader modules. SPIR-V 1.4â€™s
new features primarily make it an easier target for compilers from
high-level languages, rather than exposing new hardware functionality.

SPIR-V 1.4 incorporates features that are also available separately as
extensions. SPIR-V 1.4 shader modules do not need to enable those
extensions with the `OpExtension` opcode, since they are integral parts
of SPIR-V 1.4.

SPIR-V 1.4 introduces new floating point execution mode capabilities,
also available via `SPV_KHR_float_controls`. Implementations are not
required to support all of these new capabilities; support can be
queried using
[VkPhysicalDeviceFloatControlsPropertiesKHR](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkPhysicalDeviceFloatControlsPropertiesKHR.html)
from the
[`VK_KHR_shader_float_controls`](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VK_KHR_shader_float_controls.html)
extension.

## <a href="#_promotion_to_vulkan_1_2" class="anchor"></a>Promotion to Vulkan 1.2

All functionality in this extension is included in core Vulkan 1.2, with
the KHR suffix omitted. The original type, enum and command names are
still available as aliases of the core functionality.

## <a href="#_new_enum_constants" class="anchor"></a>New Enum Constants

- `VK_KHR_SPIRV_1_4_EXTENSION_NAME`

- `VK_KHR_SPIRV_1_4_SPEC_VERSION`

## <a href="#_issues" class="anchor"></a>Issues

1\. Should we have an extension specific to this SPIR-V version, or add
a version-generic query for SPIR-V version? SPIR-V 1.4 does not need any
other API changes.

**RESOLVED**: Just expose SPIR-V 1.4.

Most new SPIR-V versions introduce optionally-required capabilities or
have implementation-defined limits, and would need more API and
specification changes specific to that version to make them available in
Vulkan. For example, to support the subgroup capabilities added in
SPIR-V 1.3 required introducing
[VkPhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkPhysicalDeviceSubgroupProperties.html)
to allow querying the supported group operation categories, maximum
supported subgroup size, etc. While we could expose the parts of a new
SPIR-V version that do not need accompanying changes generically, we
will still end up writing extensions specific to each version for the
remaining parts. Thus the generic mechanism will not reduce future
spec-writing effort. In addition, making it clear which parts of a
future version are supported by the generic mechanism and which cannot
be used without specific support would be difficult to get right ahead
of time.

2\. Can different stages of the same pipeline use shaders with different
SPIR-V versions?

**RESOLVED**: Yes.

Mixing SPIR-V versions 1.0-1.3 in the same pipeline has not been
disallowed, so it would be inconsistent to disallow mixing 1.4 with
previous versions. SPIR-V 1.4 does not introduce anything that should
cause new difficulties here.

3\. Must Vulkan extensions corresponding to SPIR-V extensions that were
promoted to core in 1.4 be enabled in order to use that functionality in
a SPIR-V 1.4 module?

**RESOLVED**: No, with caveats.

The SPIR-V 1.4 module does not need to declare the SPIR-V extensions,
since the functionality is now part of core, so there is no need to
enable the Vulkan extension that allows SPIR-V modules to declare the
SPIR-V extension. However, when the functionality that is now core in
SPIR-V 1.4 is optionally supported, the query for support is provided by
a Vulkan extension, and that query can only be used if the extension is
enabled.

This applies to any SPIR-V version; specifically for SPIR-V 1.4 this
only applies to the functionality from `SPV_KHR_float_controls`, which
was made available in Vulkan by
[`VK_KHR_shader_float_controls`](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VK_KHR_shader_float_controls.html).
Even though the extension was promoted in SPIR-V 1.4, the capabilities
are still optional in implementations that support `VK_KHR_spirv_1_4`.

A SPIR-V 1.4 module does not need to enable `SPV_KHR_float_controls` in
order to use the capabilities, so if the application has *a priori*
knowledge that the implementation supports the capabilities, it does not
need to enable
[`VK_KHR_shader_float_controls`](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VK_KHR_shader_float_controls.html).
However, if it does not have this knowledge and has to query for support
at runtime, it must enable
[`VK_KHR_shader_float_controls`](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VK_KHR_shader_float_controls.html) in
order to use
[VkPhysicalDeviceFloatControlsPropertiesKHR](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkPhysicalDeviceFloatControlsPropertiesKHR.html).

## <a href="#_version_history" class="anchor"></a>Version History

- Revision 1, 2019-04-01 (Jesse Hall)

  - Internal draft versions

## <a href="#_see_also" class="anchor"></a>See Also

No cross-references are available

## <a href="#_document_notes" class="anchor"></a>Document Notes

For more information, see the <a
href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#VK_KHR_spirv_1_4"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">Vulkan Specification</a>

This page is a generated document. Fixes and changes should be made to
the generator scripts, not directly.

## <a href="#_copyright" class="anchor"></a>Copyright

Copyright 2014-2024 The Khronos Group Inc.

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

Version 1.3.285  
Last updated 2024-05-10 01:10:25 -0700
