# VkSubpassDescription(3) Manual Page

## Name

VkSubpassDescription - Structure specifying a subpass description



## <a href="#_c_specification" class="anchor"></a>C Specification

The `VkSubpassDescription` structure is defined as:

``` c
// Provided by VK_VERSION_1_0
typedef struct VkSubpassDescription {
    VkSubpassDescriptionFlags       flags;
    VkPipelineBindPoint             pipelineBindPoint;
    uint32_t                        inputAttachmentCount;
    const VkAttachmentReference*    pInputAttachments;
    uint32_t                        colorAttachmentCount;
    const VkAttachmentReference*    pColorAttachments;
    const VkAttachmentReference*    pResolveAttachments;
    const VkAttachmentReference*    pDepthStencilAttachment;
    uint32_t                        preserveAttachmentCount;
    const uint32_t*                 pPreserveAttachments;
} VkSubpassDescription;
```

## <a href="#_members" class="anchor"></a>Members

- `flags` is a bitmask of
  [VkSubpassDescriptionFlagBits](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkSubpassDescriptionFlagBits.html)
  specifying usage of the subpass.

- `pipelineBindPoint` is a
  [VkPipelineBindPoint](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkPipelineBindPoint.html) value specifying the
  pipeline type supported for this subpass.

- `inputAttachmentCount` is the number of input attachments.

- `pInputAttachments` is a pointer to an array of
  [VkAttachmentReference](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkAttachmentReference.html) structures
  defining the input attachments for this subpass and their layouts.

- `colorAttachmentCount` is the number of color attachments.

- `pColorAttachments` is a pointer to an array of `colorAttachmentCount`
  [VkAttachmentReference](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkAttachmentReference.html) structures
  defining the color attachments for this subpass and their layouts.

- `pResolveAttachments` is `NULL` or a pointer to an array of
  `colorAttachmentCount`
  [VkAttachmentReference](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkAttachmentReference.html) structures
  defining the resolve attachments for this subpass and their layouts.

- `pDepthStencilAttachment` is a pointer to a
  [VkAttachmentReference](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkAttachmentReference.html) structure
  specifying the depth/stencil attachment for this subpass and its
  layout.

- `preserveAttachmentCount` is the number of preserved attachments.

- `pPreserveAttachments` is a pointer to an array of
  `preserveAttachmentCount` render pass attachment indices identifying
  attachments that are not used by this subpass, but whose contents
  **must** be preserved throughout the subpass.

## <a href="#_description" class="anchor"></a>Description

Each element of the `pInputAttachments` array corresponds to an input
attachment index in a fragment shader, i.e. if a shader declares an
image variable decorated with a `InputAttachmentIndex` value of **X**,
then it uses the attachment provided in `pInputAttachments`\[**X**\].
Input attachments **must** also be bound to the pipeline in a descriptor
set. If the `attachment` member of any element of `pInputAttachments` is
`VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, the application **must** not read from the
corresponding input attachment index. Fragment shaders **can** use
subpass input variables to access the contents of an input attachment at
the fragmentâ€™s (x, y, layer) framebuffer coordinates. Input attachments
**must** not be used by any subpasses within a render pass that enables
<a
href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#vertexpostproc-renderpass-transform"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">render pass transform</a>.

Each element of the `pColorAttachments` array corresponds to an output
location in the shader, i.e. if the shader declares an output variable
decorated with a `Location` value of **X**, then it uses the attachment
provided in `pColorAttachments`\[**X**\]. If the `attachment` member of
any element of `pColorAttachments` is `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, or if <a
href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#framebuffer-color-write-enable"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">Color Write Enable</a> has been disabled
for the corresponding attachment index, then writes to the corresponding
location by a fragment shader are discarded.

If `flags` does not include
`VK_SUBPASS_DESCRIPTION_SHADER_RESOLVE_BIT_QCOM`, and if
`pResolveAttachments` is not `NULL`, each of its elements corresponds to
a color attachment (the element in `pColorAttachments` at the same
index), and a <a
href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#renderpass-resolve-operations"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">multisample resolve operation</a> is
defined for each attachment unless the resolve attachment index is
`VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`.

Similarly, if `flags` does not include
`VK_SUBPASS_DESCRIPTION_SHADER_RESOLVE_BIT_QCOM`, and
[VkSubpassDescriptionDepthStencilResolve](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkSubpassDescriptionDepthStencilResolve.html)::`pDepthStencilResolveAttachment`
is not `NULL` and does not have the value `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, it
corresponds to the depth/stencil attachment in
`pDepthStencilAttachment`, and <a
href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#renderpass-resolve-operations"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">multisample resolve operation</a> for
depth and stencil are defined by
[VkSubpassDescriptionDepthStencilResolve](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkSubpassDescriptionDepthStencilResolve.html)::`depthResolveMode`
and
[VkSubpassDescriptionDepthStencilResolve](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkSubpassDescriptionDepthStencilResolve.html)::`stencilResolveMode`,
respectively. If
[VkSubpassDescriptionDepthStencilResolve](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkSubpassDescriptionDepthStencilResolve.html)::`depthResolveMode`
is `VK_RESOLVE_MODE_NONE` or the `pDepthStencilResolveAttachment` does
not have a depth aspect, no resolve operation is performed for the depth
attachment. If
[VkSubpassDescriptionDepthStencilResolve](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkSubpassDescriptionDepthStencilResolve.html)::`stencilResolveMode`
is `VK_RESOLVE_MODE_NONE` or the `pDepthStencilResolveAttachment` does
not have a stencil aspect, no resolve operation is performed for the
stencil attachment.

If the image subresource range referenced by the depth/stencil
attachment is created with
`VK_IMAGE_CREATE_SAMPLE_LOCATIONS_COMPATIBLE_DEPTH_BIT_EXT`, then the <a
href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#renderpass-resolve-operations"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">multisample resolve operation</a> uses
the sample locations state specified in the `sampleLocationsInfo` member
of the element of the
`VkRenderPassSampleLocationsBeginInfoEXT`::`pPostSubpassSampleLocations`
for the subpass.

If `pDepthStencilAttachment` is `NULL`, or if its attachment index is
`VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, it indicates that no depth/stencil attachment
will be used in the subpass.

The contents of an attachment within the render area become undefined at
the start of a subpass **S** if all of the following conditions are
true:

- The attachment is used as a color, depth/stencil, or resolve
  attachment in any subpass in the render pass.

- There is a subpass **S<sub>1</sub>** that uses or preserves the
  attachment, and a subpass dependency from **S<sub>1</sub>** to **S**.

- The attachment is not used or preserved in subpass **S**.

In addition, the contents of an attachment within the render area become
undefined at the start of a subpass **S** if all of the following
conditions are true:

- `VK_SUBPASS_DESCRIPTION_SHADER_RESOLVE_BIT_QCOM` is set.

- The attachment is used as a color or depth/stencil in the subpass.

Once the contents of an attachment become undefined in subpass **S**,
they remain undefined for subpasses in subpass dependency chains
starting with subpass **S** until they are written again. However, they
remain valid for subpasses in other subpass dependency chains starting
with subpass **S<sub>1</sub>** if those subpasses use or preserve the
attachment.

Valid Usage

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06912"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06912"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06912  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pInputAttachments` is not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL` or
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06913"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06913"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06913  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pColorAttachments` is not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL` or
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_SHADER_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06914"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06914"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06914  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pResolveAttachments` is
  not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL` or
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_SHADER_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06915"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06915"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06915  
  If the `attachment` member of `pDepthStencilAttachment` is not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, ts `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL` or
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_SHADER_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06916"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06916"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06916  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pColorAttachments` is not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_ATTACHMENT_STENCIL_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL` or
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_READ_ONLY_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06917"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06917"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06917  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pResolveAttachments` is
  not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_ATTACHMENT_STENCIL_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL` or
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_READ_ONLY_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06918"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06918"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06918  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pInputAttachments` is not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL` or
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06919"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06919"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06919  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pColorAttachments` is not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL`,
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL`,
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL`, or
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_STENCIL_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06920"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06920"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06920  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pResolveAttachments` is
  not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL`,
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_DEPTH_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL`,
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL`, or
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_STENCIL_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06921"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06921"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06921  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pInputAttachments` is not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_ATTACHMENT_OPTIMAL_KHR`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06922"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06922"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06922  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pColorAttachments` is not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL_KHR`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06923"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06923"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-06923  
  If the `attachment` member of an element of `pResolveAttachments` is
  not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, its `layout` member **must** not be
  `VK_IMAGE_LAYOUT_READ_ONLY_OPTIMAL_KHR`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pipelineBindPoint-04952"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pipelineBindPoint-04952"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pipelineBindPoint-04952  
  `pipelineBindPoint` **must** be `VK_PIPELINE_BIND_POINT_GRAPHICS` or
  `VK_PIPELINE_BIND_POINT_SUBPASS_SHADING_HUAWEI`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-colorAttachmentCount-00845"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-colorAttachmentCount-00845"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-colorAttachmentCount-00845  
  `colorAttachmentCount` **must** be less than or equal to
  `VkPhysicalDeviceLimits`::`maxColorAttachments`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-loadOp-00846"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-loadOp-00846"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-loadOp-00846  
  If the first use of an attachment in this render pass is as an input
  attachment, and the attachment is not also used as a color or
  depth/stencil attachment in the same subpass, then `loadOp` **must**
  not be `VK_ATTACHMENT_LOAD_OP_CLEAR`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00847"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00847"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00847  
  If `pResolveAttachments` is not `NULL`, for each resolve attachment
  that is not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, the corresponding color attachment
  **must** not be `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00848"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00848"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00848  
  If `pResolveAttachments` is not `NULL`, for each resolve attachment
  that is not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`, the corresponding color attachment
  **must** not have a sample count of `VK_SAMPLE_COUNT_1_BIT`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00849"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00849"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00849  
  If `pResolveAttachments` is not `NULL`, each resolve attachment that
  is not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` **must** have a sample count of
  `VK_SAMPLE_COUNT_1_BIT`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00850"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00850"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-00850  
  If `pResolveAttachments` is not `NULL`, each resolve attachment that
  is not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` **must** have the same
  [VkFormat](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkFormat.html) as its corresponding color attachment

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pColorAttachments-09430"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pColorAttachments-09430"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pColorAttachments-09430  
  All attachments in `pColorAttachments` that are not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` **must** have the same sample count

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pInputAttachments-02647"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pInputAttachments-02647"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pInputAttachments-02647  
  All attachments in `pInputAttachments` that are not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` **must** have image formats whose <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#potential-format-features"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener">potential format features</a> contain
  at least `VK_FORMAT_FEATURE_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_BIT` or
  `VK_FORMAT_FEATURE_DEPTH_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT_BIT`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pColorAttachments-02648"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pColorAttachments-02648"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pColorAttachments-02648  
  All attachments in `pColorAttachments` that are not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` **must** have image formats whose <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#potential-format-features"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener">potential format features</a> contain
  `VK_FORMAT_FEATURE_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_BIT`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-02649"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-02649"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-02649  
  All attachments in `pResolveAttachments` that are not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` **must** have image formats whose <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#potential-format-features"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener">potential format features</a> contain
  `VK_FORMAT_FEATURE_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_BIT`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-02650"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-02650"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-02650  
  If `pDepthStencilAttachment` is not `NULL` and the attachment is not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` then it **must** have an image format whose <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#potential-format-features"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener">potential format features</a> contain
  `VK_FORMAT_FEATURE_DEPTH_STENCIL_ATTACHMENT_BIT`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-linearColorAttachment-06496"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-linearColorAttachment-06496"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-linearColorAttachment-06496  
  If the <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-linearColorAttachment"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener"><code>linearColorAttachment</code></a>
  feature is enabled and the image is created with
  `VK_IMAGE_TILING_LINEAR`, all attachments in `pInputAttachments` that
  are not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` **must** have image formats whose <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#potential-format-features"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener">potential format features</a> **must**
  contain `VK_FORMAT_FEATURE_2_LINEAR_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_BIT_NV`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-linearColorAttachment-06497"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-linearColorAttachment-06497"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-linearColorAttachment-06497  
  If the <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-linearColorAttachment"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener"><code>linearColorAttachment</code></a>
  feature is enabled and the image is created with
  `VK_IMAGE_TILING_LINEAR`, all attachments in `pColorAttachments` that
  are not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` **must** have image formats whose <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#potential-format-features"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener">potential format features</a> **must**
  contain `VK_FORMAT_FEATURE_2_LINEAR_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_BIT_NV`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-linearColorAttachment-06498"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-linearColorAttachment-06498"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-linearColorAttachment-06498  
  If the <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#features-linearColorAttachment"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener"><code>linearColorAttachment</code></a>
  feature is enabled and the image is created with
  `VK_IMAGE_TILING_LINEAR`, all attachments in `pResolveAttachments`
  that are not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` **must** have image formats whose
  <a
  href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#potential-format-features"
  target="_blank" rel="noopener">potential format features</a> **must**
  contain `VK_FORMAT_FEATURE_2_LINEAR_COLOR_ATTACHMENT_BIT_NV`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-None-09431"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-None-09431"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-None-09431  
  If either of the following is enabled:

  - The
    [`VK_AMD_mixed_attachment_samples`](VK_AMD_mixed_attachment_samples.html)
    extension

  - The
    [`VK_NV_framebuffer_mixed_samples`](VK_NV_framebuffer_mixed_samples.html)
    extension

  all attachments in `pColorAttachments` that are not
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` **must** have a sample count that is smaller
  than or equal to the sample count of `pDepthStencilAttachment` if it
  is not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-01418"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-01418"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-01418  
  If `pDepthStencilAttachment` is not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED` and any
  attachments in `pColorAttachments` are not `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`,
  they **must** have the same sample count , if none of the following
  are enabled:

  - The
    [`VK_AMD_mixed_attachment_samples`](VK_AMD_mixed_attachment_samples.html)
    extension

  - The
    [`VK_NV_framebuffer_mixed_samples`](VK_NV_framebuffer_mixed_samples.html)
    extension

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-00853"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-00853"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-attachment-00853  
  Each element of `pPreserveAttachments` **must** not be
  `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pPreserveAttachments-00854"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pPreserveAttachments-00854"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pPreserveAttachments-00854  
  Each element of `pPreserveAttachments` **must** not also be an element
  of any other member of the subpass description

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-layout-02519"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-layout-02519"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-layout-02519  
  If any attachment is used by more than one
  [VkAttachmentReference](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkAttachmentReference.html) member, then each
  use **must** use the same `layout`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-00856"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-00856"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-00856  
  If `flags` includes
  `VK_SUBPASS_DESCRIPTION_PER_VIEW_POSITION_X_ONLY_BIT_NVX`, it **must**
  also include `VK_SUBPASS_DESCRIPTION_PER_VIEW_ATTRIBUTES_BIT_NVX`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-03341"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-03341"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-03341  
  If `flags` includes `VK_SUBPASS_DESCRIPTION_SHADER_RESOLVE_BIT_QCOM`,
  and if `pResolveAttachments` is not `NULL`, then each resolve
  attachment **must** be `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-03343"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-03343"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-03343  
  If `flags` includes `VK_SUBPASS_DESCRIPTION_SHADER_RESOLVE_BIT_QCOM`,
  then the subpass **must** be the last subpass in a subpass dependency
  chain

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pInputAttachments-02868"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pInputAttachments-02868"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pInputAttachments-02868  
  If the render pass is created with
  `VK_RENDER_PASS_CREATE_TRANSFORM_BIT_QCOM` each of the elements of
  `pInputAttachments` **must** be `VK_ATTACHMENT_UNUSED`

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-04438"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-04438"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-04438  
  `pDepthStencilAttachment` and `pColorAttachments` **must** not contain
  references to the same attachment

Valid Usage (Implicit)

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-parameter"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-parameter"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-flags-parameter  
  `flags` **must** be a valid combination of
  [VkSubpassDescriptionFlagBits](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkSubpassDescriptionFlagBits.html)
  values

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pipelineBindPoint-parameter"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pipelineBindPoint-parameter"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pipelineBindPoint-parameter  
  `pipelineBindPoint` **must** be a valid
  [VkPipelineBindPoint](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkPipelineBindPoint.html) value

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pInputAttachments-parameter"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pInputAttachments-parameter"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pInputAttachments-parameter  
  If `inputAttachmentCount` is not `0`, `pInputAttachments` **must** be
  a valid pointer to an array of `inputAttachmentCount` valid
  [VkAttachmentReference](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkAttachmentReference.html) structures

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pColorAttachments-parameter"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pColorAttachments-parameter"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pColorAttachments-parameter  
  If `colorAttachmentCount` is not `0`, `pColorAttachments` **must** be
  a valid pointer to an array of `colorAttachmentCount` valid
  [VkAttachmentReference](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkAttachmentReference.html) structures

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-parameter"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-parameter"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pResolveAttachments-parameter  
  If `colorAttachmentCount` is not `0`, and `pResolveAttachments` is not
  `NULL`, `pResolveAttachments` **must** be a valid pointer to an array
  of `colorAttachmentCount` valid
  [VkAttachmentReference](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkAttachmentReference.html) structures

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-parameter"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-parameter"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pDepthStencilAttachment-parameter  
  If `pDepthStencilAttachment` is not `NULL`, `pDepthStencilAttachment`
  **must** be a valid pointer to a valid
  [VkAttachmentReference](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkAttachmentReference.html) structure

- <a href="#VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pPreserveAttachments-parameter"
  id="VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pPreserveAttachments-parameter"></a>
  VUID-VkSubpassDescription-pPreserveAttachments-parameter  
  If `preserveAttachmentCount` is not `0`, `pPreserveAttachments`
  **must** be a valid pointer to an array of `preserveAttachmentCount`
  `uint32_t` values

## <a href="#_see_also" class="anchor"></a>See Also

[VK_VERSION_1_0](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VK_VERSION_1_0.html),
[VkAttachmentReference](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkAttachmentReference.html),
[VkPipelineBindPoint](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkPipelineBindPoint.html),
[VkRenderPassCreateInfo](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkRenderPassCreateInfo.html),
[VkSubpassDescriptionFlags](https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/man/html/VkSubpassDescriptionFlags.html)

## <a href="#_document_notes" class="anchor"></a>Document Notes

For more information, see the <a
href="https://registry.khronos.org/vulkan/specs/1.3-extensions/html/vkspec.html#VkSubpassDescription"
target="_blank" rel="noopener">Vulkan Specification</a>

This page is extracted from the Vulkan Specification. Fixes and changes
should be made to the Specification, not directly.

## <a href="#_copyright" class="anchor"></a>Copyright

Copyright 2014-2024 The Khronos Group Inc.

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

Version 1.3.285  
Last updated 2024-05-10 01:10:25 -0700
